All right.
Let's summarize what we learned in the last three videos and kind of turn this into some steps to move
forward.
At the end of the day, here's our goal, here's our plan.
If we are ever making requests from the browser, then we're going to essentially allow the browser
to work as usual when it comes to figuring out what domain to make the request to.
In other words, we're going to use a base URL in Axios of just empty string.
So we will continue when we're executing requests inside the browser to have a URL like that right there.
But if we are making a request during the server side rendering process, then we need to make sure
that we set a base URL on that request to reach out to Ingress and Gen X directly.
So for example, if we were making this request right here during the server side rendering process,
we would have to add in something like HTTP, ingress and all that other stuff that we just spoke about
a moment ago.
So that's what we really need to do.
We need to customize the request based upon the environment.
Now that starts to raise an important question How do we know when a request is going to be executed
in the browser versus on next DJs or by next DJs itself?
Well, here's the rule of thumb we're going to use.
If we ever have a request coming from a component, then that is always going to be issued from the
browser.
So we will use that rule of using a domain of basically empty string.
How do we know the request is always going to come from the browser if it's issued in a component?
Well, remember, during the server side rendering process, it initial props gets called one time.
We can make some requests inside there and then we return some data.
That data is provided to this component as props and that component is then going to render itself exactly
one time.
Although we technically can make a request from inside of here, we don't ever get the opportunity to
wait for the request to be resolved during the server side rendering process.
So we don't get the the we don't get the ability to update any state, make use of any lifecycle methods
or anything like that.
All the components just get executed or rendered one time and whatever they return is immediately sent
back down to the browser.
Then once inside the browser, if we have any requests being issued from inside of the component, that's
totally fine.
So basically, if the request is inside of a component, we do not have to worry about setting a very
particular domain or anything like that.
So the only other location where we'll be making requests is inside of get initial props.
And unfortunately this is where life starts to get a little bit confusing.
Up to this point, I've said to you several times that get initial props gets executed during the server
side rendering process 100% true.
Initial props always call during server side rendering it is executed on the server.
However get initial props will also be executed in the browser under some very.
Particular, I guess is the best word, very particular circumstances.
So let's take a look at when that that function is going to be executed inside the browser.
So here's essentially the rules.
On the left hand side, we've got a couple of request sources.
So this is essentially when we try to navigate to our app or when some request is issued from inside
of our application.
So if we ever do a hard refresh the page, get initial props will be executed on the server.
If we ever click a link from a different document or a different domain.
So let's say that you go to Reddit and you click on a link and that takes you to our application that
is going to cause get initial props to be executed on the server.
And then finally, if we ever say type a URL into the address bar and hit the enter key once again,
get initial props executed on the server.
But get initial drops can be executed on the client.
And the case in which that will happen is any time that we are navigating from one page to another while
inside of our application already.
So let's go through these different scenarios and I want to prove to you exactly make sure that this
is actually what occurs.
So.
To really test this out.
I'm going to go back over to my good initial props.
I'm going to comment out what is inside there right now.
And I'm also going to comment out the console log of current user up there.
I'll then put in a console log of I was executed.
And they'll go into return an empty object.
So we're going to try to load up our page in a couple of different ways, and we'll take a look at where
this console log shows up at, and we can use that to really determine what context or whether good
initial props is being executed in the browser or on the server.
Yeah.
So let's try first a hard refresh the page.
So I'm going to go over to ticketing Dev.
I'm going to refresh the page.
And I see no console.log at all.
But if I go over to my terminal, I see I was executed right there.
Okay.
Well, that definitely means that the initial process was executed on the server.
I'm now going to clear this log by pressing command k.
And I'm going to test out the next scenario.
We don't really have the ability to click on a link from a different domain, so I'll just go directly
to this one.
I'm going to try typing our URL into the address bar.
So for this I can really just go to the address bar and hit enter.
And when I do so, I don't see any console.log over here.
But again, if I go over to my terminal, I will see I was executed again.
That means that get initial props was executed on the server.
Now, finally, last case.
If we are navigating from one page to another while already inside the application.
So how can we simulate this?
Remember, any time that we successfully sign up to our application, we navigate to a different page
inside of our app.
So if we go and try to sign up right now, that should cause get initial prompts to be executed on the
client.
So to test that out, I'm going to go to ticketing dev off.
Sign up.
I'm then going to enter in a valid email and a valid password and then click on sign up.
I then automatically navigated over while still inside the application.
I did not do a full reload of the page.
Instead, we just changed the HTML that was on the screen.
So in this scenario, we see that get initial props was in fact executed.
On the browser.
So in total what this is what I'm really saying here is that if we are making requests from inside of
a component, we don't have to worry about this whole domain issue.
But if we are making a request from get initial props, we do have to worry about it.
So if we are ever making a request from, say, inside of a component or inside of a hook like, let's
say use request, which we had put together a little bit ago, we don't have to worry about in this
domain stuff, but any request that is originating from inside of a get initial props, that's where
we have to worry about this whole domain problem.
Okay.
So now we've narrowed this down a little bit more.
We're going to come back the next video and we're going to figure out how we can tell whether we are
on the client or the server by writing out some code inside of get initial props.